list of surah's 


Surah Kahf
Surah Sajdah - 32, pg 416
Surah Yaseen
Surah Dukhan -44,  pg 496
Surah Fath - 48, pg 512
Surah Qaf - 50, pg 519
Surah Rahman
Surah Waqia
Surah Mulk
Surah Qalam
Surah Haqqah
Surah Muzzammil
Surah Muddassir

+ 30th Para


Trick to learn.. 

Just think we never going stop revising quran.. so dont worry if you get stuck..
this helped in learning very quickly and easily



Usually this type of questions occurs because,  
We think Islam is meant to serve us, & not us serving Allah...
Its not some after school social activity, its not a video game
People want religion to serve them, what is islam doing for me?
Allah does not speak from the position of servin you.
You are called the abd, he is called the master.

what he does we know, but the questions is what do you do & what do i do?



This is the day, we get graded, for the zakat we gave, for Namaz we prayed, for islamic seminars we are attending.. etc etc
That day, you will be graded, Allah knows best, how we will be graded, we could have prayed Salah, let Allah make none of use among them who's salah will be thrown at their face
Because we wont only be judged by outside even if we are,imam, qari, islamic speaker, hafiz...
and there is someone, who cannot read quran properly, doesn't have beard, but they were seeking about Allah, 
and whatever little they knew they use to work on it.. no matter how small,
yet who knows they could be more worth to Allah than the person who is a very good islamic speaker, or a good qari,
because of they could have been more sincere to Allah, 
more genuine to Allah...

so basically  its niyyah, which turn gold to iron, iron to gold...  gold is more valuable even though the quantity is way less.. compared to iron's worth.

Airlines short story  by nouman ali.

(sidenote: 16years in we got the regulation of hijab, before that we didn't had hijab.. so we could not know by appearance if those were muslim women or not & those were the greatest periods, previously they left there home for islam,
 starved for islam yet they didn't had hijab yet.. why didn't Allah send it in the begining, Allah took the time, easing things, but we never take our time into easing somebody into things)
 
 So in our period ppl have gone very far from islam, getting them follow the rules is not the first priority, but getting their hearts connected to Allah is the first priority.