The quran mentions extreme cases of either good people or bad people.
Hence sometimes it feels like its difficult for us to relate as an average or ordinary person.

We just to change the view of we are looking at quran.
Let's take a story of prophet Musa (A.S), Where Allah in quran described that he had given Musa (A.s) both wisdom & knowledge, but the very next ayah Allah says he punched a man, and unfortunately he died.
Even though wisdom & knowledge were present.

Allah says having Wisdom doesn't make you completely perfect, knowledge doesn't make you 100% perfect. you can still make mistakes.

Similar story of Prophet Yaqub (A.s) who had trouble raising his children. As they wouldn't listen to him, Instead make fun of him.
This doesn't mean he was a bad person, where infact he is one of the best persons and also a prophet. 


In the same manner we are not a worst of worst people who have been mentioned in Quran, but still some qualities and attitude which are similar to them.
like oppression to your family, Not following Allah's command instead following our own nafs.
You don't entirely need to be firaun (Pharoah).



Nov 21
Ayah:27

Are you more difficult creation or is the sky(heaven) that he (Allah) constructed it.

translation:
He says are you a more marvellous creation ? or is the sky more marvellous creation.


When Allah says constructed we dont take it literally, its not a science textbook whose language very literal sense.
Like us when we speak our language, we don't say everything in literal fashion, when you say My heart is broken, you don't mean this literally! 
Quran is a poetic language too, 


Nov 22
Ayah: 30.
And after that he spread the earth.

Here the word the 'dahaha' means to make place for an egg.
This is often taken as proof that Allah mentions earth like its oval shape or an egg, but the problem with that is 
the word 'dahaha' is a verb which means a place to keep an egg and not egg itself.


Allah made the earth smooth, what if the entire earth was made like terrain? It would have been very difficult to even walk.
Therefore he made world possible to travel.


Ayah 33:
Enjoyment for you and your grazing livestock.
(hidden meaning)