summary:

what is a shaitan/iblis?
First of Allah tells us clearly surah fatir verse no:06

Shaitan is an enemy for you, so take him as a enemy.

Shaitan in arabic literally means someone who deludes from good to bad.

In many passages of Quran, Allah mentions that
He created jins from smokeless fire... so smoke ki blue flame jo hai.. wo part which is smokeless..

Allah also clearly tells in Quran, 
The power of Shaitan is very weak..

you shouldn't give him more power than he already has..

Only when shaitan/iblis comes when your power is reduced to their level... that is when you start to give in.. 

Back in arab days, when people use to travel and had to camp at night, 
they use to fear jins,and their stories..

So being afraid  they use to call out.. "Oh jins, oh jins please dont harms us, we seek refuge in you.."
When jins found out they are afraid of them they increased their mischievious and harm.


And about How iblis disobeyed Allah, the Iblees revenge and so on.. would take more time.
In short.. Iblees said am Better than him,  Iblees said I know better than Allah.. (pause..) Does He really think he knows better than Allah himself.. 
Therefore he made kufr.. as He rejected Allah's Qadr.
Then finally he challenged, Oh Allah by your might,and by your glory, I am going to lead all of them astray!
Allah said go on... try your best until the destined hour.. ie Judgment day...
And some other place I heard, Allah says by my might and glory, I will forgive them.. if they truly repent to me, if they are sincere in their repentance.. 
Even though the sins may be as Huge as mountains..

Therefore as mentioned at start, He is our enemy,
Hence due to time constraints lets move ahead..


Shaitan's approach is very subtle.. means he directly wont approach at you, as they are tricksters..
Allah says..  in Quran..

Shaitan's wants us to basically do 2 things.
1) Fahsha -  dirty shameless acts
2) wal munkar - Immoral acts..

He comes to us step by step, he makes us desensitize

example of desensitize..
5 yrs ago something when we considered something big, something really sinful,
but look at it now, it becomes easy, it becomes desensitize..


Here are 8 common tricks and tactics used by shaitan...

Trick 1: The ultimate goal, is to do Shirk,make partners with Allah, make them disbelievers..
If can't make you do this major sin, he will start with minor shirk

Example: Astrology, zodiac signs and others..

Another example: Suppose someone has non-muslim their friend or family circle..
Shaitan says, "Hey just as a goodness, why dont you go with them and share their religious acts, only out of goodness, you dont really believe in it,
just go and do for thier sake.."

You see shaitan will always find and work around us in anyway possible.. for you to compromise your faith, and justify your acts..

Trick 2: If he can't convince you to shirk, then he will try with Major sins..
Such as Alcohol, zina, murder, black magic etc...

why.. becomes major sin can atleast get you a punishment..
so if he starts with major sin, his goal is to shirk..
or if he starts with minor sins, his goal is to go to major sin..

As we must always remember shaitan works step by step..

Trick 3: Minor sins
as discussed his goal is not only to make us do minor sins, he is always working towards the next goal, major sin

Trick 4: He gets you busy with permissible things and your hobbies/interest until you over spend your time with them
and miss out on doing good deeds 

example playing games, working towards a goal, but not praying namaz..

Trick 5:He gets you busy with minor good deeds, deprive you of Major good deeds.

Trick 6: Innovation in your religion.., trying justify your own way of worshiping god

Trick 7: Religious Extremism	
ino galat, uno galat, ye haram wo haram,,
apke logon suljane wale k bajai, logon uljhane wale hum nhi banna chahiye..


As Allah says in Quran, 
NEver praise yourself in piety, as Allah knows who is more pious..